To start, I'll introduce some terminology: *errors*, as I'll use the term, are the consequences of Murphy's law. If something can go wrong, it will: a file that your program needs to read will be missing, a disk that you need to write to will be full, the server you're talking to will crash, or the network will go down. If any of these things happen, it may stop a piece of code from doing what you want. But there's no bug; there's no place in the code that you can fix to make the nonexistent file exist or the disk not be full. However, if the rest of the program is depending on the actions that were going to be taken, then you'd better deal with the error somehow or you *will* have introduced a bug. So, errors aren't caused by bugs, but neglecting to handle an error is almost certainly a bug.

So, what does it mean to handle an error? In a well-written program, each function is a black box hiding its inner workings. Programs are then built out of layers of functions: high-level functions are built on top of the lower-level functions, and so on. This hierarchy of functionality manifests itself at runtime in the form of the call stack: if `high` calls `medium`, which calls `low`, when the flow of control is in `low`, it's also still in `medium` and `high`, that is, they're still on the call stack.

Because each function is a black box, function boundaries are an excellent place to deal with errors. Each function--`low`, for example--has a job to do. Its direct caller--`medium` in this case--is counting on it to do its job. However, an error that prevents it from doing its job puts all its callers at risk: `medium` called `low` because it needs the work done that `low` does; if that work doesn't get done, `medium` is in trouble. But this means that `medium`'s caller, `high`, is also in trouble--and so on up the call stack to the very top of the program. On the other hand, because each function is a black box, if any of the functions in the call stack can somehow do their job despite underlying errors, then none of the functions above it needs to know there was a problem--all those functions care about is that the function they called somehow did the work expected of it.

In most languages, errors are handled by returning from a failing function and giving the caller the choice of either recovering or failing itself. Some languages use the normal function return mechanism, while languages with exceptions return control by *throwing* or *raising* an exception. Exceptions are a vast improvement over using normal function returns, but both schemes suffer from a common flaw: while searching for a function that can recover, the stack unwinds, which means code that might recover has to do so without the context of what the lower-level code was trying to do when the error actually occurred.

Consider the hypothetical call chain of `high`, `medium`, `low`. If `low` fails and `medium` can't recover, the ball is in `high`'s court. For `high` to handle the error, it must either do its job without any help from `medium` or somehow change things so calling `medium` will work and call it again. The first option is theoretically clean but implies a lot of extra code--a whole extra implementation of whatever it was `medium` was supposed to do. And the further the stack unwinds, the more work that needs to be redone. The second option--patching things up and retrying--is tricky; for `high` to be able to change the state of the world so a second call into `medium` won't end up causing an error in `low`, it'd need an unseemly knowledge of the inner workings of both `medium`and `low`, contrary to the notion that each function is a black box.

## 19.1 Lisp的处理方式



## 19.3 Condition

```
(define-condition malformed-log-entry-error (error)
  ((text :initarg :text :reader text)))
```



```
(defun parse-log-entry (text)
  (if (well-formed-log-entry-p text)
    (make-instance 'log-entry ...)
    (error 'malformed-log-entry-error :text text)))
```

## Handler

```
(defun parse-log-file (file)
  (with-open-file (in file :direction :input)
    (loop for text = (read-line in nil nil) while text
       for entry = (handler-case (parse-log-entry text)
                     (malformed-log-entry-error () nil))
       when entry collect it)))
```

Java，Python

`**HANDLER-CASE**` is the nearest analog in Common Lisp to Java- or Python-style exception handling. Where you might write this in Java:

```
try {
  doStuff();
  doMoreStuff();
} catch (SomeException se) {
  recover(se);
}
```

or this in Python:

```
try:
  doStuff()
  doMoreStuff()
except SomeException, se:
  recover(se)
```

in Common Lisp you'd write this:

```
(handler-case
    (progn
      (do-stuff)
      (do-more-stuff))
  (some-exception (se) (recover se)))
```



## 再启动

???



## 编写坚不可摧的产品级代码



