## LIStProcessing

These days, a Common Lisp programmer is as likely to use a vector, a hash table, or a user-defined class or structure as to use a list.

向量，哈希表，自定义类，结构体

Practically speaking, lists remain in the language because they're an excellent solution to certain problems. One such problem--how to represent code as data in order to support code-transforming and code-generating macros--is particular to Lisp, which may explain why other languages don't feel the lack of Lisp-style lists. More generally, lists are an excellent data structure for representing any kind of heterogeneous and/or hierarchical data. They're also quite lightweight and support a functional style of programming that's another important part of Lisp's heritage.

列表是表达任何异构和层次数据的绝佳数据类型。

轻量且支持函数式编程风格。它在结构和定义上是递归的。

Thus, you need to understand lists on their own terms; as you gain a better understanding of how lists work, you'll be in a better position to appreciate when you should and shouldn't use them.

### cons

construct

```lisp
car
cdr
```

```
(cons 1 nil)                   ==> (1)
(cons 1 (cons 2 nil))          ==> (1 2)
(cons 1 (cons 2 (cons 3 nil))) ==> (1 2 3)
```

cell 可以保存任何对象

```
(list "foo" (list 1 2) 10) ==> ("foo" (1 2) 10)
```

Because lists can have other lists as elements, you can also use them to represent trees of arbitrary depth and complexity. As such, they make excellent representations for any heterogeneous, hierarchical data. Lisp-based XML processors, for instance, usually represent XML documents internally as lists. Another obvious example of tree-structured data is Lisp code itself. In Chapters 30 and 31 you'll write an HTML generation library that uses lists of lists to represent the HTML to be generated. I'll talk more next chapter about using cons cells to represent other data structures.

因为 lists 可以把其他 lists 作为元素，所以你可以使用 lists 来表示具有任意深度和复杂度的树。

由此它们可以成为任何异构和层次数据的极佳表示方式。

基于 Lisp 的 xml 处理器，通常在内部将 xml 文档表示成列表。

另一个树结构数据的明显例子是 Lisp 代码本身。

在30和31章，我们要写一个 HTML生成器库，其中就使用列表的列表来表示生成的 HTML。

下一章将讨论更多关于使用 cons cell 来表示其他的数据结构。

## 函数是编程与列表

The essence of functional programming is that programs are built entirely of functions with no side effects that compute their results based solely on the values of their arguments.

Eliminating side effects eliminates almost all possibilities for action at a distance.

消除副作用也就消除了超距作用的可能。

The reason most list functions are written functionally is it allows them to return results that share cons cells with their arguments.

## 破坏性操作

```
(defparameter *list-1* (list 1 2))
(defparameter *list-2* (list 3 4))
(defparameter *list-3* (append *list-1* *list-2*))
```

```
*list-1*                  ==> (1 2)
*list-2*                  ==> (3 4)
*list-3*                  ==> (1 2 3 4)
```

```
(setf (first *list-2*) 0) ==> 0
*list-2*                  ==> (0 4)     ; as expected
*list-3*                  ==> (1 2 0 4) ; maybe not what you wanted
```

`NREVERSE` allows you to do exactly that. The *N* stands for *non-consing*, meaning it doesn't need to allocate any new cons cells. The exact side effects of `NREVERSE` are intentionally not specified--it's allowed to modify any `CAR` or `CDR` of any cons cell in the list--but a typical implementation might walk down the list changing the `CDR` of each cons cell to point to the previous cons cell, eventually returning the cons cell that was previously the last cons cell in the old list and is now the head of the reversed list. No new cons cells need to be allocated, and no garbage is created.

`NCONC`, the recycling version of `APPEND`, and `DELETE`,`DELETE-IF`, `DELETE-IF-NOT`, and `DELETE-DUPLICATES`, the recycling versions of the `REMOVE` family of sequence functions.

In general, you use recycling functions in the same way you use their nondestructive counterparts except it's safe to use them only when you know the arguments aren't going to be used after the function returns.

Like `**APPEND**`, `**NCONC**` returns a concatenation of its list arguments, but it builds its result in the following way: for each nonempty list it's passed, `**NCONC**` sets the `**CDR**` of the list's last cons cell to point to the first cons cell of the next nonempty list. It then returns the first list, which is now the head of the spliced-together result. Thus:

```
(defparameter *x* (list 1 2 3))
(nconc *x* (list 4 5 6)) ==> (1 2 3 4 5 6)
*x* ==> (1 2 3 4 5 6)
```

## 组合回收性操作与共享结构

Nondestructive list functions return lists that share structure under the assumption that cons cells are never modified, but recycling functions work by violating that assumption. Or, put another way, sharing structure is based on the premise that you don't care exactly what cons cells make up a list while using recycling functions requires that you know exactly what cons cells are referenced from where.

In practice, recycling functions tend to be used in a few idiomatic ways. By far the most common recycling idiom is to build up a list to be returned from a function by "consing" onto the front of a list, usually by `**PUSH**`ing elements onto a list stored in a local variable and then returning the result of `**NREVERSE**`ing it.

This is an efficient way to build a list because each `**PUSH**` has to create only one cons cell and modify a local variable and the `**NREVERSE**` just has to zip down the list reassigning the `**CDR**`s. Because the list is created entirely within the function, there's no danger any code outside the function has a reference to any of its cons cells. Here's a function that uses this idiom to build a list of the first *n* numbers, starting at zero:

```
(defun upto (max)
  (let ((result nil))
    (dotimes (i max)
      (push i result))
    (nreverse result)))

(upto 10) ==> (0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9)
```

In general, when manipulating lists, it's best to write your own code in a functional style--your functions should depend only on the contents of their list arguments and shouldn't modify them. Following that rule will, of course, rule out using any destructive functions, recycling or otherwise. Once you have your code working, if profiling shows you need to optimize, you can replace nondestructive list operations with their recycling counterparts but only if you're certain the argument lists aren't referenced from anywhere else.

使用 sort 时，传递拷贝。

One last gotcha to watch out for is that the sorting functions `**SORT**`, `**STABLE-SORT**`, and `**MERGE**` mentioned in Chapter 11 are also recycling functions when applied to lists.10 However, these functions don't have nondestructive counterparts, so if you need to sort a list without destroying it, you need to pass the sorting function a copy made with `COPY-LIST`. In either case you need to be sure to save the result of the sorting function because the original argument is likely to be in tatters. For instance:

```
CL-USER> (defparameter *list* (list 4 3 2 1))
*LIST*
CL-USER> (sort *list* #'<)
(1 2 3 4)                      ; looks good
CL-USER> *list*
(4)                            ; whoops!
```

## 列表处理函数

| Function        | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `**LAST**`      | Returns the last cons cell in a list. With an integer, argument returns the last *n* cons cells. |
| `**BUTLAST**`   | Returns a copy of the list, excluding the last cons cell. With an integer argument, excludes the last *n* cells. |
| `**NBUTLAST**`  | The recycling version of `**BUTLAST**`; may modify and return the argument list but has no reliable side effects. |
| `**LDIFF**`     | Returns a copy of a list up to a given cons cell. |
| `**TAILP**`     | Returns true if a given object is a cons cell that's part of the structure of a list. |
| `**LIST\***`    | Builds a list to hold all but the last of its arguments and then makes the last argument the `**CDR**` of the last cell in the list. In other words, a cross between `**LIST**` and `**APPEND**`. |
| `**MAKE-LIST**` | Builds an *n* item list. The initial elements of the list are `**NIL**` or the value specified with the `:initial-element` keyword argument. |
| `**REVAPPEND**` | Combination of `**REVERSE**` and `**APPEND**`; reverses first argument as with `**REVERSE**` and then appends the second argument. |
| `**NRECONC**`   | Recycling version of `**REVAPPEND**`; reverses first argument as if by `**NREVERSE**` and then appends the second argument. No reliable side effects. |
| `**CONSP**`     | Predicate to test whether an object is a cons cell. |
| `**ATOM**`      | Predicate to test whether an object is *not* a cons cell. |
| `**LISTP**`     | Predicate to test whether an object is either a cons cell or `**NIL**`. |
| `**NULL**`      | Predicate to test whether an object is `**NIL**`. Functionally equivalent to `**NOT**`but stylistically preferable when testing for an empty list as opposed to boolean false. |

## mapping

The differences between the six functions have to do with how they build up their result and whether they apply the function to the elements of the list or to the cons cells of the list structure.

```
(mapcar #'(lambda (x) (* 2 x)) (list 1 2 3)) ==> (2 4 6)
(mapcar #'+ (list 1 2 3) (list 10 20 30)) ==> (11 22 33)
```

maplist 使用 cdr 来迭代列表

`**MAPCAN**` and `**MAPCON**` work like `**MAPCAR**` and `**MAPLIST**` except for the way they build up their result. While `**MAPCAR**` and `**MAPLIST**` build a completely new list to hold the results of the function calls, `**MAPCAN**` and `**MAPCON**` build their result by splicing together the results--which must be lists--as if by `**NCONC**`.











