each macro defines its own syntax, determining how the s-expressions it's passed are turned into Lisp forms.

### WHEN and UNLESS

```lisp
(if (spam-p current-message)
    (progn
      (file-in-spam-folder current-message)
      (update-spam-database current-message)))
```

That's not too horrible. But given the number of times you'll likely have to use this idiom, it's not hard to imagine that you'd get tired of it after a while. "Why," you might ask yourself, "doesn't Lisp provide a way to say what I really want, namely, 'When *x* is true, do this, that, and the other thing'?" In other words, after a while you'd notice the pattern of an `**IF**` plus a `**PROGN**`and wish for a way to abstract away the details rather than writing them out every time.

This is exactly what macros provide. In this case, Common Lisp comes with a standard macro, `**WHEN**`, which lets you write this:

```lisp
(when (spam-p current-message)
  (file-in-spam-folder current-message)
  (update-spam-database current-message))
```

But if it wasn't built into the standard library, you could define `**WHEN**`yourself with a macro such as this, using the backquote notation I discussed in Chapter 3:

```lisp
(defmacro when (condition &rest body)
  `(if ,condition (progn ,@body)))
```

Admittedly, these are pretty trivial macros. There's no deep black magic here; they just abstract away a few language-level bookkeeping details, allowing you to express your true intent a bit more clearly. But their very triviality makes an important point: because the macro system is built right into the language, you can write trivial macros like `**WHEN**` and `**UNLESS**` that give you small but real gains in clarity that are then multiplied by the thousands of times you use them. In Chapters 24, 26, and 31 you'll see how macros can also be used on a larger scale, creating whole domain-specific embedded languages.

### cond



### and or



### 循环

```lisp
do
dolist
dotimes
loop
```

#### dolist

```lisp
(dolist (x '(1 2 3)) (print x))

(dolist (x '(1 2 3)) (print x) (if (evenp x) (return)))
```

```lisp
(dotimes (i 4) (print i)
```

#### do

并行循环多变量

```lisp
(do ((n 0 (1+ n))
     (cur 0 next)
     (next 1 (+ cur next)))
    ((= 10 n) cur))
```

Finally, the next loop demonstrates a `**DO**` loop that binds no variables. It loops while the current time is less than the value of a global variable, printing "Waiting" once a minute. Note that even with no loop variables, you still need the empty variables list.

```lisp
(do ()
    ((> (get-universal-time) *some-future-date*))
  (format t "Waiting~%")
  (sleep 60))
```

#### loop

```lisp
(loop
  (when (> (get-universal-time) *some-future-date*)
    (return))
  (format t "Waiting~%")
  (sleep 60))
```



















