Common Lisp also provides functions that let you treat data structures built out of cons cells as trees, sets, and lookup tables. In this chapter I'll give you a quick tour of some of these other data structures and the functions for manipulating them. As with the list-manipulation functions, many of these functions will be useful when you start writing more complicated macros and need to manipulate Lisp code as data.

## tree

copy-tree

tree-equal

```
CL-USER> (subst 10 1 '(1 2 (3 2 1) ((1 1) (2 2))))
(10 2 (3 2 10) ((10 10) (2 2)))
```

## sets

Sets can also be implemented in terms of cons cells. In fact, you can treat any list as a set--Common Lisp provides several functions for performing set-theoretic operations on lists. However, you should bear in mind that because of the way lists are structured, these operations get less and less efficient the bigger the sets get.

That said, using the built-in set functions makes it easy to write set-manipulation code. And for small sets they may well be more efficient than the alternatives. If profiling shows you that these functions are a performance bottleneck in your code, you can always replace the lists with sets built on top of hash tables or bit vectors.

To build up a set, you can use the function `**ADJOIN**`. `**ADJOIN**` takes an item and a list representing a set and returns a list representing the set containing the item and all the items in the original set. To determine whether the item is present, it must scan the list; if the item isn't found, `**ADJOIN**` creates a new cons cell holding the item and pointing to the original list and returns it. Otherwise, it returns the original list.

`**ADJOIN**` also takes `:key` and `:test` keyword arguments, which are used when determining whether the item is present in the original list. Like `**CONS**`, `**ADJOIN**` has no effect on the original list--if you want to modify a particular list, you need to assign the value returned by `**ADJOIN**` to the place where the list came from. The modify macro `**PUSHNEW**` does this for you automatically.

```
CL-USER> (defparameter *set* ())
*SET*
CL-USER> (adjoin 1 *set*)
(1)
CL-USER> *set*
NIL
CL-USER> (setf *set* (adjoin 1 *set*))
(1)
CL-USER> (pushnew 2 *set*)
(2 1)
CL-USER> *set*
(2 1)
CL-USER> (pushnew 2 *set*)
(2 1)
```

You can test whether a given item is in a set with `**MEMBER**` and the related functions `**MEMBER-IF**` and `**MEMBER-IF-NOT**`. These functions are similar to the sequence functions `**FIND**`, `**FIND-IF**`, and `**FIND-IF-NOT**` except they can be used only with lists. And instead of returning the item when it's present, they return the cons cell containing the item--in other words, the sublist starting with the desired item. When the desired item isn't present in the list, all three functions return `**NIL**`.

The remaining set-theoretic functions provide bulk operations: `**INTERSECTION**`, `**UNION**`, `**SET-DIFFERENCE**`, and `**SET-EXCLUSIVE-OR**`. Each of these functions takes two lists and `:key` and `:test` keyword arguments and returns a new list representing the set resulting from performing the appropriate set-theoretic operation on the two lists.

Finally, the function `**SUBSETP**` takes two lists and the usual `:key` and `:test`keyword arguments and returns true if the first list is a subset of the second--if every element in the first list is also present in the second list. The order of the elements in the lists doesn't matter.

```
CL-USER> (subsetp '(3 2 1) '(1 2 3 4))
T
CL-USER> (subsetp '(1 2 3 4) '(3 2 1))
NIL
```

## Lookup Tables: Alists and Plists

An alist is a data structure that maps keys to values and also supports reverse lookups, finding the key when given a value. Alists also support adding key/value mappings that shadow existing mappings in such a way that the shadowing mapping can later be removed and the original mappings exposed again.

```
CL-USER> (assoc 'a '((a . 1) (b . 2) (c . 3)))
(A . 1)
CL-USER> (assoc 'c '((a . 1) (b . 2) (c . 3)))
(C . 3)
CL-USER> (assoc 'd '((a . 1) (b . 2) (c . 3)))
NIL
```

To get the value corresponding to a given key, you simply pass the result of `**ASSOC**` to `**CDR**`.

```
CL-USER> (cdr (assoc 'a '((a . 1) (b . 2) (c . 3))))
1
```

By default the key given is compared to the keys in the alist using `**EQL**`, but you can change that with the standard combination of `:key` and `:test` keyword arguments. For instance, if you wanted to use string keys, you might write this:

```
CL-USER> (assoc "a" '(("a" . 1) ("b" . 2) ("c" . 3)) :test #'string=)
("a" . 1)
```

```
(push (cons 'new-key 'new-value) alist)
```

```
CL-USER> (pairlis '(a b c) '(1 2 3))
((C . 3) (B . 2) (A . 1))
```

However, plists are less flexible than alists. In fact, plists support only one fundamental lookup operation, the function `**GETF**`, which takes a plist and a key and returns the associated value or `**NIL**` if the key isn't found. `**GETF**`also takes an optional third argument, which will be returned in place of `**NIL**`if the key isn't found.

Unlike `**ASSOC**`, which uses `**EQL**` as its default test and allows a different test function to be supplied with a `:test` argument, `**GETF**` always uses `**EQ**` to test whether the provided key matches the keys in the plist. Consequently, you should never use numbers or characters as keys in a plist; as you saw in Chapter 4, the behavior of `**EQ**` for those types is essentially undefined. Practically speaking, the keys in a plist are almost always symbols, which makes sense since plists were first invented to implement symbolic "properties," arbitrary mappings between names and values.

```
CL-USER> (defparameter *plist* ())
*PLIST*
CL-USER> *plist*
NIL
CL-USER> (setf (getf *plist* :a) 1)
1
CL-USER> *plist*
(:A 1)
CL-USER> (setf (getf *plist* :a) 2)
2
CL-USER> *plist*
(:A 2)
```

```
CL-USER> (remf *plist* :a)
T
CL-USER> *plist*
NIL
```



The last special thing about plists is the relationship they have with symbols: every symbol object has an associated plist that can be used to store information about the symbol. The plist can be obtained via the function `**SYMBOL-PLIST**`. However, you rarely care about the whole plist; more often you'll use the functions `**GET**`, which takes a symbol and a key and is shorthand for a `**GETF**` of the same key in the symbols `**SYMBOL-PLIST**`.

```
(get 'symbol 'key) === (getf (symbol-plist 'symbol) 'key)
```

Like `**GETF**`, `**GET**` is `**SETF**`able, so you can attach arbitrary information to a symbol like this:

```
(setf (get 'some-symbol 'my-key) "information")
```

To remove a property from a symbol's plist, you can use either `**REMF**` of `**SYMBOL-PLIST**` or the convenience function `**REMPROP**`.4

```
(remprop 'symbol 'key) === (remf (symbol-plist 'symbol key))
```

Being able to attach arbitrary information to names is quite handy when doing any kind of symbolic programming. For instance, one of the macros you'll write in Chapter 24 will attach information to names that other instances of the same macros will extract and use when generating their expansions.

## DESTRUCTURING-BIND

```
(destructuring-bind (x y z) (list 1 2 3)
  (list :x x :y y :z z)) ==> (:X 1 :Y 2 :Z 3)

(destructuring-bind (x y z) (list 1 (list 2 20) 3)
  (list :x x :y y :z z)) ==> (:X 1 :Y (2 20) :Z 3)

(destructuring-bind (x (y1 y2) z) (list 1 (list 2 20) 3)
  (list :x x :y1 y1 :y2 y2 :z z)) ==> (:X 1 :Y1 2 :Y2 20 :Z 3)

(destructuring-bind (x (y1 &optional y2) z) (list 1 (list 2 20) 3)
  (list :x x :y1 y1 :y2 y2 :z z)) ==> (:X 1 :Y1 2 :Y2 20 :Z 3)

(destructuring-bind (x (y1 &optional y2) z) (list 1 (list 2) 3)
  (list :x x :y1 y1 :y2 y2 :z z)) ==> (:X 1 :Y1 2 :Y2 NIL :Z 3)

(destructuring-bind (&key x y z) (list :x 1 :y 2 :z 3)
  (list :x x :y y :z z)) ==> (:X 1 :Y 2 :Z 3)

(destructuring-bind (&key x y z) (list :z 1 :y 2 :x 3)
  (list :x x :y y :z z)) ==> (:X 3 :Y 2 :Z 1)
```



```
(destructuring-bind (&whole whole &key x y z) (list :z 1 :y 2 :x 3)
  (list :x x :y y :z z :whole whole))
==> (:X 3 :Y 2 :Z 1 :WHOLE (:Z 1 :Y 2 :X 3))
```















