## 变量声明

```lisp
# define a global variable
(defparameter *samll* 1)

> (let ((a 5)
		(b 6))
	(+ a b))
```

## 局部函数

```lisp
(flet ((f (n)
		(+ n 10))
		(g (n)
			(- n 3)))
	(g (f 5)))
12
```



## 函数

```lisp
# 移位运算
> (ash 11 1) # 左移1位
22
```







## chap3 Lisp代码的语法

Writing a Lisp compiler or interpreter is much easier.

```lisp
(defun square (n)
	(* n n))
```

This function declaration, which creates a function that simply squares a number, consists of nothing more than parentheses and symbols. In fact, you can view it as just a bunch of nested lists, delimited（划定界限） by parentheses.
Lisp only has one way of organizing bits of code: It uses parentheses to organize the code into lists.



But what sorts of things can we put into these lists? Well, besides other
lists, we can also put symbols, numbers, and strings into our code. Here, we’ll
look at these basic building blocks, or datatypes, you’ll use in Lisp. (We’ll
discuss many other Common Lisp datatypes in later chapters.)

### Symbols

```lisp
> (eq 'fooo 'FoOo)
T
```

### Numbers

```lisp
> (+ 1 1.0)
2.0

> (expt 3 4)
81


```

### Strings

```lisp
> (princ "Tutti Frutti")
Tutti Frutti

> (princ "He yelled \"Stop that thief!\" from the busy street.")
He yelled "Stop that thief!" from the busy street.
```

### How Lisp Distinguishes Between Code and Data

Lisp如何区分代码与数据

When we write our Lisp program, how does Lisp decide which parts of our
program consist of code (stuff to be executed) and which parts are just data?
The syntax of Lisp has a special way of distinguishing between the two.

**默认是code mode**

**data mode**

```lisp
> `(expt 2 3) # ```````````````````````````````
(EXPT 2 3)
```

As you might imagine, any stuff written in data mode is treated as data. This means the computer will not try to “execute” it, which allows us to have information in our code that’s just plain old data.



### Lists in Lisp

```lisp
(expt 2 3)
This piece of code contains a symbol ( expt ) and two numbers, all tied together as a list, indicated by the parentheses.

```



### Cons Cells

Lists in Lisp are held together with cons cells.

In fact, lists in Lisp are just an abstract illusion—all of them are actually composed of cons cells.



### List Functions

Manipulating lists is extremely important in Lisp programming. There are three basic functions for manipulating cons cells (and hence lists) in Lisp: cons ,  car , and  cdr

```lisp
> (cons 'chicken 'cat)
(CHICKEN . CAT)

> (cons 'chicken 'nil)
(CHICKEN)

> (cons 'chicken ())
(CHICKEN)

> (cons 'pork '(beef chicken))
(PORK BEEF CHICKEN)

> (cons 'beef (cons 'chicken ()))
(BEEF CHICKEN)

> (cons 'pork (cons 'beef (cons 'chicken ())))
(PORK BEEF CHICKEN)
In Lisp, a chain of cons cells and a list are exactly the same thing.

> (car (cdr '(pork beef chicken)))
BEEF
> (cadr '(pork beef chicken))
BEEF
```

### The list Function

For convenience, Common Lisp has many functions built on top of the basic three— cons ,  car , and  cdr . A useful one is the  list function, which does the dirty work of creating all the cons cells and builds our list all at once:

```lisp
> (list 'pork 'beef 'chicken)
(PORK BEEF CHICKEN)
```

### Nested Lists

Lists can contain other lists. Here’s an example:

```lisp
`(cat (duck bat) ant)
```

However, under the hood, these nested lists are still just made out of cons cells. 

```lisp
> (car '((peas carrots tomatoes) (pork beef chicken)))
(PEAS CARROTS TOMATOES)
> (cdr '(peas carrots tomatoes))
(CARROTS TOMATOES)
> (cdr (car '((peas carrots tomatoes) (pork beef chicken))))
(CARROTS TOMATOES)
> (cdar '((peas carrots tomatoes) (pork beef chicken)))
(CARROTS TOMATOES)
```

As demonstrated in this example, cons cells allow us to create complex structures, and we use them here to build a nested list. 

## chap4 Making Decisions With Conditions

### Empty Equals False

Since the Lisp philosophy strongly emphasizes the use of lists to store and
manipulate information, it will come as no surprise that the design of Common
Lisp favors behaviors that make it easy to slice and dice such lists. The most
profound design decision made in Common Lisp, with regard to lists, is that
it automatically treats an empty list as a false value when evaluating a condition:

```lisp
(if '()
  'i-am-true
  'i-am-false)
I-AM-FALSE

(if '(1)
  'i-am-true
  'i-am-false)
I-AM-TRUE

```

This example shows that when we pass the empty list  () into an  if form, it evaluates as a false value, whereas a list that contains an item evaluates as true.
Because we can easily detect an empty list, we can process lists using recursion. With this technique, we can take items from the front of a list and send the rest of the list back to the same function until the list is empty. (It’s a good thing that detecting empty lists is so easy, because so many functions in Lisp end up being list-eaters.)

```lisp
> (defun my-length (list)
      (if list
      (1+ (my-length (cdr list)))
      0))
```

This function is written in classic Lisp style. It calls itself recursively as it chomps（咀嚼） items off the front of the list. Calling yourself in this way is not only allowed in Lisp, but is often strongly encouraged. Lists in Lisp are recursive (conses of conses of conses . . .), so the act of consuming a list maps naturally onto functions that are recursive.

**Note**

Calling yourself recursively can sometimes make for slow code. In Chapter 14, we’ll rewrite the  my-length function using a special, potentially faster, type of recursion.

**递归这个词有点模糊，我们还可以精确划分为语义上的递归和实际执行上的递归**

去看SICP第一章，它讲的很清楚。

```lisp 
# 上面的 my-length 我们可以改写为更快的方式
（defun my-length-iter (list len)
	(if list
        (my-length-iter (cdr list) (1+ len))
        len)
	）

(defun my-length (list)
  (my-length-iter list 0))

```

### if

```lisp
> (if (oddp 5)
    'odd-number
    'even-number)
ODD-NUMBER
```

But  if is not just a function. It’s a special form, which gives it special privileges, such as the right to not evaluate all its parameters in the normal way.
This makes sense, since the whole point of a condition is to run some stuff but not other stuff.

```lisp
> (if (oddp 5)
    (progn (setf *number-was-odd* t)
    'odd-number)
    'even-number)
```



```lisp
> (defvar *number-is-odd* nil)
> (when (oddp 5)
    (setf *number-is-odd* t)
    'odd-number)
ODD-NUMBER
> *number-is-odd*
T

> (unless (oddp 4)
    (setf *number-is-odd* nil)
    'even-number)
EVEN-NUMBER
> *number-is-odd*
NIL
```

With  when , all the enclosed expressions are evaluated when the condition is true. With  unless , all the enclosed expressions are evaluated when the condition is false. 

### The Command That Does it All: cond

???

### Cool Tricks with Conditions

and 与 or 的条件功能

```lisp
> (defparameter *is-it-even* nil)
*IS-IT-EVEN*
Making Decisions with Conditions 59
> (or (oddp 4) (setf *is-it-even* t))
T
> *is-it-even*
T

(and *file-modified* (ask-user-about-saving) (save-file))
```

### Using Functions That Return More than Just the Truth

```lisp
> (if (member 1 '(3 4 1 5))
    'one-is-in-the-list
    'one-is-not-in-the-list)
'ONE-IS-IN-THE-LIST

> (member 1 '(3 4 1 5))
(1 5)

> (find-if #'oddp '(2 4 5 6))
5
> (if (find-if #'oddp '(2 4 5 6))
    'there-is-an-odd-number
    'there-is-no-odd-number)
'there-is-an-odd-number

```

### Comparing Stuff: eq, equal, and More

equal ,  eql ,  eq ,  = ,  string-equal , and  equalp are the most commonly used. 

```lisp
;;comparing strings with different CAPS
> (equalp "Bob Smith" "bob smith")
T
;;comparing integers against floating point numbers
> (equalp 0 0.0)
T
```

## chap5 Build a Text Game Engine

### Basic Requirements

Our game code will need to handle a few basic things:

```lisp
Looking around
Walking to different locations
Picking up objects
Performing actions on the objects picked up
```

#### Describing the Scenery with an Association List

```lisp
(defparameter *nodes* '((living-room (you are in the living-room.
                                      a wizard is snoring loudly on the couch.))
                             (garden (you are in a beautiful garden.
                                      there is a well in front of you.))
                              (attic (you are in the attic.
                                      there is a giant welding torch in the corner.))))	
```

One thing is rather unusual about the definition of this  *nodes* variable:
Even though it contains descriptions of the various locations in our game world, it does not actually contain any text strings. Since Common Lisp has a string datatype, we could have written descriptions using quotes. For instance, we could have written  "You are in a beautiful garden. There is a well in front of you." Instead, we use more fundamental datatypes—symbols and lists—to encode this information.

Why wouldn’t we just use strings? As I mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, the manipulation of text is not really a fundamental computing concept. In this game, we’ll manipulate the messages displayed to players based on their interaction with the game world in complicated ways. For most real-world programs, the information you’ll generate as output (such as HTML, PDFs, or even richer graphical formats) will probably be far more complicated than just simple text.

By keeping your source data structures free from assumptions regarding
the output format from the start, your coding can take full advantage of your
programming language. Since the easiest things to manipulate in Lisp are
symbols and lists, most experienced Lispers will try to focus on these datatypes
in the design of their software whenever possible. So, we will stay away from
strings in our design. (In the next chapter, we will translate these lists and
symbols into properly formatted text.)

### Describing the Location

```lisp
> (assoc 'garden *nodes*)
(GARDEN (YOU ARE IN A BEAUTIFUL GARDEN. THERE IS A WELL IN FRONT OF YOU.))

(defun describe-location (location nodes)
	(cadr (assoc location nodes)))

> (describe-location 'living-room *nodes*)
(YOU ARE IN THE LIVING-ROOM. A WIZARD IS SNORING LOUDLY ON THE COUCH.)
```

### Describing the Paths

```lisp
(defparameter *edges* '((living-room (garden west door)
                                      (attic upstairs ladder))
                         (garden (living-room east door))
                         (attic (living-room downstairs ladder))))

(defun describe-path (edge)
	`(there is a ,(caddr edge) going ,(cadr edge) from here.))

> (describe-path '(garden west door))
(THERE IS A DOOR GOING WEST FROM HERE.)
```

### How Quasiquoting Works

To enable quasiquoting, you must use a backquote [ ` ] not a single quote [ ' ]
when switching from code to data mode. The  describe-path function has just
such a backquote in it.

Both the single quote and backquote in Lisp “flip” a piece of code into
data mode, but only a backquote can also be unquoted using the comma char-
acter, to flip back into code mode.

使用 , 跳入代码模式

### Describing Multiple Paths at Once

```lisp
(defun describe-paths (location edges)
	(apply #'append (mapcar #'describe-path (cdr (assoc location edges)))))

> (describe-paths 'living-room *edges*)
(THERE IS A DOOR GOING WEST FROM HERE. THERE IS A LADDER GOING UPSTAIRS FROM
HERE.)
```

The  describe-paths function takes the following steps:

1. Find the relevant edges.
2. Convert the edges to descriptions.
3. Join the descriptions.

The  mapcar function is used frequently by Lispers. This function takes
another function and a list, and then applies this function to every member

of a list. Here’s an example:

```lisp
> (mapcar #'sqrt '(1 2 3 4 5))
(1 1.4142135 1.7320508 2 2.236068) # creating a new list

> (mapcar #'car '((foo bar) (baz qux)))
(foo baz)

# #' is a shorthand for the function operator. 
> (mapcar (function car) '((foo bar) (baz qux)))
(foo baz)
```

Common Lisp tracks function names differently from variable names. It has multiple namespaces, including one for variables and one for functions.
(We’ll learn more about namespaces later, especially in Chapter 16.) Scheme, the other popular Lisp dialect, doesn’t force you to mark functions with a function operator when using them as values.

```lisp
> (let ((car "Honda Civic"))
(mapcar #'car '((foo bar) (baz qux)))) # 没有问题，因为两个car处于不同的命名空间
(foo baz)
```



In other words, Scheme has only one namespace for both functions and
variables. For instance, in Scheme, you can just write  (map sqrt '(1 2 3 4 5)) to
generate the square roots of the numbers 1 through 5 without generating an
error ( map is the Scheme version of  mapcar ). 

As a result of this design, in Scheme, a variable and a separate function can’t be available in the same block of code. That design decision is one of the great benefits (or curses) of Scheme, depending on your point of view. Because of this difference in the number of namespaces, Scheme is sometimes called a Lisp-1, whereas Common Lisp is sometimes referred to as a Lisp-2.

#### Joining the Descriptions

Once we’ve used  mapcar to generate a list of descriptions for all the paths and
edges, we need to combine them into a single description. We accomplish
this with the  append function, which joins several lists into one big list:

```lisp
> (append '(mary had) '(a) '(little lamb))
(MARY HAD A LITTLE LAMB)
```

The problem is that  append needs all of the lists handed to it as separate parameters. In  describe-paths , we have our lists in one big list, not as separate objects we can pass as parameters.

```lisp
> (apply #'append '((mary had) (a) (little lamb)))
(MARY HAD A LITTLE LAMB)
```

### Describing Objects at a Specific Location

To create the final piece of code to help us visualize our game world, we need to describe the objects on the floor at a given location, which a player can pick up and use.

#### Listing Visible Objects

To do so, we first create a list of the objects:

```lisp
> (defparameter *objects* '(whiskey bucket frog chain))
*OBJECTS*
```

We can also create a second variable,  *object-locations* , to track the location of each object in the form of an alist:

```lisp
(defparameter *object-locations* '((whiskey living-room)
                                   (bucket living-room)
                                   (chain garden)
                                   (frog garden)))
```

#### Describing Visible Objects

Now we can write a function to describe the objects visible at a given location:

```lisp
(defun describe-objects (loc objs obj-loc)
    (labels ((describe-obj (obj)
    			`(you see a ,obj on the floor.)))
    (apply #'append (mapcar #'describe-obj (objects-at loc objs obj-loc)))))

> (describe-objects 'living-room *objects* *object-locations*)
(YOU SEE A WHISKEY ON THE FLOOR. YOU SEE A BUCKET ON THE FLOOR)
```

### Describing It All

Now we’ll tie all of these description functions into one easy command called look . Because this will be the actual command players can enter to look around them in the game,  look will need to know a player’s current location. So, we need a variable to track the player’s current position. Let’s call it  *location* :

```lisp
(defparameter *location* 'living-room)
```

Because the  *location* value is initialized to the  living-room symbol, which occurs at the very start of the game, players will find themselves in the living room of the wizard’s house. At this point, we can write a  look function to describe everything we need by having it call all of our descriptor functions:

```lisp
(defun look ()
  (append (describe-location *location* *nodes*)
          (describe-paths *location* *edges*)
          (describe-objects *location* *objects* *object-locations*)))
```

Since the  look function uses global variable names (such as  *location* ,
*nodes* , and so on), the player won’t need to pass in any funky values in order
to look out at the world. However, this also means that the  look function is
not in the functional programming style, because functions in the functional
programming style reference only parameters or variables declared in the
function itself.  *location* and its ilk are global variables, so the  look function
doesn’t hold up muster.

Since the player’s location changes as the game progresses,  look will do
different things at different times in the game. In other words, the things you see
when looking around will change depending on your location. In contrast, a
function in the functional programming style always returns the same result,
as long as the same values are given as parameters. The earlier functions we
created, such as  describe-location ,  describe-paths , and  describe-objects , always
return the same thing, no matter when they are called, as long as their parameters
are kept the same.

### Walking Around in Our World

```lisp
(defun walk (direction)
  (let ((next (find direction
                (cdr (assoc *location* *edges*))
                :key #'cadr)))
    (if next
      (progn (setf *location* (car next))
      (look))
      '(you cannot go that way.))))
```



```lisp
> (find 'y '((5 x) (3 y) (7 z)) :key #'cadr)
(3 Y)
```



```lisp
> (walk 'west)
(YOU ARE IN A BEAUTIFUL GARDEN.
THERE IS A WELL IN FRONT OF YOU.
THERE IS A DOOR GOING EAST FROM HERE.
YOU SEE A CHAIN ON THE FLOOR.
YOU SEE A FROG ON THE FLOOR.)
```

### Picking Up Objects

Next, let’s create a command to pick up objects in our world. To do so, we
modify the variable  *object-locations* that we’re using to track the location
of objects:

```lisp
(defun pickup (object)
    (cond ((member object
    				(objects-at *location* *objects* *object-locations*))
    		(push (list object 'body) *object-locations*)
    		 `(you are now carrying the ,object))
    		(t '(you cannot get that.))))
```

```lisp
> (defparameter *foo* '(1 2 3))
*FOO*
> (push 7 *foo*)
(7 1 2 3)
> *foo*
(7 1 2 3)
```

This  push command is basically a convenience function built on top of  setf .
For example, we could have replaced the preceding  push command with  (setf
*foo* (cons 7 *foo*)) and obtained the same result. It’s just easier to use  push .
Pushing a new location for an object onto our  *object-locations* alist does
seem a bit odd. Since we’re never removing old locations for objects, just
pushing new ones, it means that  *object-locations* may contain multiple
entries for a single object, and that this list now has two stored locations for
the object in question. Fortunately, the  assoc command, which we use to find
objects in a given location (within the  objects-at command), always returns
the first item it finds in a list. Therefore, using the  push command makes the
assoc command behave as if the value in the list for a given key has been
replaced altogether.
Using the  push and  assoc commands together in this way allows us to pre-
tend that values in an alist are changing, while still preserving old values. Old
values are simply suppressed by newer values, thus preserving a history of all
old values. The  push / assoc idiom is a common technique used by Lispers.

### Checking Our Inventory

Finally, let’s create a function that lets players see an inventory of objects they
are carrying:

```lisp
(defun inventory ()
	(cons 'items- (objects-at 'body *objects* *object-locations*)))
```

This inventory function uses the  objects-at function to retrieve a list of
objects at a requested location. What location does it search for? If you remem-
ber, when an object was picked up by the player, we changed its location to
'body : This is the location we now use to query.



There you have it! We now have a basic engine for a text adventure game.
We can look around the world with  look ; walk between places with  walk ; pick
up objects with  pickup ; and check our inventory with  inventory .



Of course, we don’t really have much of a game, since we can’t do any-
thing with the objects we find. We’ll add a mechanism for actually manipulat-
ing objects in Chapter 17. In the next chapter, we’ll focus on improving our
game’s user interface. Even though the REPL is perfect for prototyping our
game, adding a custom text game interface will make the game play more
seamless for the player.



## chap6 Interact with the world

There are many graphical user interface libraries for different flavors of Common Lisp, as well as libraries for building web interfaces. In fact, we’ll be building our own toy web interface in Chapter 13.

In this chapter, we’ll focus on the most basic of all user interfaces, the *command-line interface*.

```lisp
> (print "hello")
"hello"
"hello"
```



### print princ 与 read

The  print and  read commands actually take this philosophy to the
extreme. Almost any conceivable type of data in Lisp (with the exception of
actual functions and some advanced data structures) can be printed and
read using these commands, without the slightest bit of loss along the way.

```lisp
(print '3) => 3 An integer
(print '3.4) => 3.4 A float
(print 'foo) => FOO A symbol. It may be printed in all caps, since Common
Lisp symbols are blind to letter case.
(print '"foo") => "foo" A string
(print '#\a) => #\a A character
```

The last example shows how literal characters are entered in Lisp. To
create a Lisp character, just place the  #\ symbols in front of the actual charac-
ter. Lisp also has special literals defined for nonvisible characters. The most
important for everyday use are  #\newline ,  #\tab , and  #\space .



By its nature,  princ could be used to print any arbitrary output of charac-
ters you want. This is fundamentally different from  print . As we’ve discussed,
the cool thing about the  print command is that it prints objects in such a way
that they can always be “read” back into their internal representation. How-
ever, this means  print can’t be used to generate any arbitrary bit of text. On
the other hand,  princ can be used to print anything you want.



### The Symmetry Between Code and Data in Lisp

You have seen that Lisp has very elegant and symmetrical facilities for translating raw string data from the outside world and converting it to and from Lisp syntax expressions.

But Lisp has an even deeper symmetry. It can treat program code and data interchangeably. A programming language that uses the same data structures to store data and program code is called homoiconic.

```lisp
> '(+ 1 2) ;data mode
(+ 1 2)
> (+ 1 2) ;code mode
3
```

In the previous chapter, we took this concept one step further by using a quasiquote when defining the  describe-path function.



```lisp
> (defparameter *foo* '(+ 1 2))
*FOO*

> (eval *foo*)
3
```

You want to write a program with self-modifying code? Then  eval will be your best friend. In fact, this is probably the main reason why the artificial intelligence (AI) freaks back in the day loved Lisp so much. 

### Setting Up a Custom REPL

```lisp
> (defun game-repl ()
	(loop (print (eval (read)))))
GAME-REPL
> (game-repl)
(look)
```



```lisp 
(defun game-repl ()
  (let ((cmd (game-read)))
    (unless (eq (car cmd) 'quit)
      (game-print (game-eval cmd))
      (game-repl))))
```

Finally, the  game-repl function calls itself recursively, causing it to loop back, as long as we had not decided to quit earlier.



#### Writing a Custom read Function

```lisp
> (list 'quote 6)
'6
> (concatenate 'string "(" (read-line) ")")
walk
"(walk)"
```

```lisp
(defun game-read ()
  (let ((cmd (read-from-string
  			(concatenate 'string "(" (read-line) ")"))))
       (flet ((quote-it (x)
                (list 'quote x)))
            (cons (car cmd) (mapcar #'quote-it (cdr cmd))))))
```

This means that  'foo and  (quote foo) are the same. 

```lisp
> (game-read)
walk east
(WALK 'EAST)
```



#### Writing a game-eval Function

The main problem with using  eval in a game is it allows you to call any Lisp command, even if that command has nothing to do with playing the game. To help protect our program from hackers, we’ll create a  game-eval function that allows only certain commands to be called, as follows:

```lisp
(defparameter *allowed-commands* '(look walk pickup inventory))
(defun game-eval (sexp)
  (if (member (car sexp) *allowed-commands*)
      (eval sexp)
      '(i do not know that command.)))
```

#### Writing a game-print Function

However, the real benefits come into play when you want to use more
sophisticated methods of presentation, such as generating HTML code. You
might want to incorporate custom semantics for your text game to enhance
the appearance of the text, such as changing colors, fonts, and so on. For
instance, you could allow your game descriptions to contain phrases such as
“You are being attacked by a (red evil demon).” Then you could just catch
the keyword  red in the  game-print function to write the enclosed text in red.
We will be creating an HTML presentation system similar to this in Chapter 17.



```lisp
(defun tweak-text (lst caps lit)
  (when lst
  (let ((item (car lst))
  		(rest (cdr lst)))
  (cond ((eq item #\space) (cons item (tweak-text rest caps lit)))
        ((member item '(#\! #\? #\.)) (cons item (tweak-text rest t lit)))
        ((eq item #\") (tweak-text rest caps (not lit)))
         (lit (cons item (tweak-text rest nil lit)))
        ((or caps lit) (cons (char-upcase item) (tweak-text rest nil lit)))
        (t (cons (char-downcase item) (tweak-text rest nil nil)))))))

(defun game-print (lst)
	(princ (coerce (tweak-text (coerce (string-trim "() "
													(prin1-to-string lst))
										'list)
								t
								nil)
					'string))
	(fresh-line))
       
```



#### Trying Out Our Fancy New Game Interface

```lisp
> (game-repl)
>>look
You are in the living-room. A wizard is snoring loudly on the couch. There is
a door going west from here. There is a ladder going upstairs from here. You
see a whiskey on the floor. You see a bucket on the floor.
>>walk west
You are in a beautiful garden. There is a well in front of you. There is a
door going east from here. You see a frog on the floor. You see a chain on
the floor.
>>pickup chain
You are now carrying the chain

>>scratch head
I do not know that command.

pickup chicken
You cannot get that.

walk east
You are in the living-room. A wizard is snoring loudly on the couch. There is
a door going west from here. There is a ladder going upstairs from here. You
see a whiskey on the floor. You see a bucket on the floor.

walk upstairs
You are in the attic. There is a giant welding torch in the corner. There is a
ladder going downstairs from here.

inventory
Items- chain

walk china
You cannot go that way.

walk downstairs
You are in the living-room. A wizard is snoring loudly on the couch. There is
a door going west from here. There is a ladder going upstairs from here. You
see a whiskey on the floor. You see a bucket on the floor.

pickup bucket
You are now carrying the bucket

look
You are in the living-room. A wizard is snoring loudly on the couch. There is
a door going west from here. There is a ladder going upstairs from here. You
see a whiskey on the floor.

quit
```



## chap6.5 Lambda

创建匿名函数

It turns out that, in Lisp, functions are actually values that we can view and pass around just as if they were numbers or lists. An experienced Lisp programmer would say that functions are first-class values in Lisp.

```lisp
> (lambda (n) (/ n 2))

> (mapcar (lambda (n) (/ n 2)) '(2 4 6))
(1 2 3)
```

#### Why lambda Is So Important

The ability to pass around functions as if they were just plain old pieces of data is incredibly valuable. 

Once you get used to doing this, you open up all kinds of conceptual possibilities in the design of your programs. Eventually, your programs will start looking very different from programs in more (dare
I say) pedestrian（缺乏想象力） languages, such as Java or C.

## chap7 Going beyond basic lists

```lisp
(cons 1 (cons 2 (cons 3 nil)))
```

### Circular Lists

```lisp
(setf *print-circle* t)

> (defparameter foo '(1 2 3))
FOO
> (setf (cdddr foo) foo)
#1=(1 2 3 . #1#)
```

The ability to place complex expressions in the first parameter of a  setf command, as in this example, is very cool, and we’ll explore it in greater detail in Chapter 9.

### Association Lists

```lisp
(defparameter *drink-order* '((bill . double-espresso)
                              (lisa . small-drip-coffee)
                              (john . medium-latte)))

> (assoc 'lisa *drink-order*)
(LISA . SMALL-DRIP-COFFEE)
```



```lisp
> (push '(lisa . large-mocha-with-whipped-cream) *drink-order*)
((LISA . LARGE-MOCHA-WITH-WHIPPED-CREAM)
(BILL . DOUBLE-ESPRESSO)
(LISA . SMALL-DRIP-COFFEE)
(JOHN . MEDIUM-LATTE))
```

However, alists do have one serious limitation: They are not a very efficient way to store and retrieve data, unless you’re dealing with very short lists (under a dozen items). Because of this inefficiency, although alists are often one of the first tools in the Lisp programmer’s toolbox, they may be replaced by other types of data structures as a program matures. (In Chapter 9, we’ll discuss the performance limitations of list-based data structures, such as alists, in greater detail.)

### Coping with Complicated Data

Cons cells are a great tool for representing a wide variety of list-like structures.
In fact, most Lisp programmers, when faced with a programming task that is
not bound by performance constraints, will rely on them almost exclusively.
Because the manipulation and visualization of structures made of cons cells
are central to the design of Lisp, these structures are extremely convenient to
use and debug.

#### Visualizing Tree-like Data

```lisp
(defparameter *house* '((walls (mortar (cement)
                                        (water)
                                        (sand))
                        		(bricks))
                        (windows (glass)
                                 (frame)
                                 (curtains))
                        (roof (shingles)
                              (chimney))))
```

#### Visualizing Graphs

In mathematics, a graph consists of a bunch of nodes connected by edges.
These nodes or edges might have additional data associated with them.

Such graphs can be stored in cons cells, but they are difficult to visualize.
We saw this in Chapter 5, when we stored the map of the wizard’s house
(which consisted of a directed graph) in two alists: one containing the node
information and one containing the edge information. I’ve renamed them
*wizard-nodes* and  *wizard-edges* for this chapter, as shown here:

```lisp
(defparameter *wizard-nodes* '((living-room (you are in the living-room.
                                a wizard is snoring loudly on the couch.))
                                (garden (you are in a beautiful garden.
                                there is a well in front of you.))
                                (attic (you are in the attic. there
								is a giant welding torch in the corner.))))
(defparameter *wizard-edges* '((living-room (garden west door)
                                (attic upstairs ladder))
                                (garden (living-room east door))
                                (attic (living-room downstairs ladder))))
```

#### Creating a Graph



##### Converting Node Identifiers

```lis
(defun dot-name (exp)
	(substitute-if #\_ (complement #'alphanumericp) (prin1-to-string exp)))

> (dot-name 'living-room)
"LIVING_ROOM"
> (dot-name 'foo!)
"FOO_"
> (dot-name '24)
"24"
```

The  substitute-if function substitutes values based on the result of a test function:

```lisp
> (substitute-if #\e #'digit-char-p "I'm a l33t hack3r!")
"I'm a leet hacker!"
```

Another interesting property of the  substitute-if function is that we can use it on lists as well:

```lisp
> (substitute-if 0 #'oddp '(1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8))
'(0 2 0 4 0 6 0 8)
```

Here, all odd numbers in a list have been replaced by the number 0. The substitute-if function is one example of a generic function—a function that can accept multiple datatypes as parameters and handle them appropriately. (Generic programming is discussed in Chapter 9.)

```lisp
(complement #'alphanumericp)
```

Lisp already has a predicate function that tells us if a character is alpha-
numeric, called  alphanumericp . However, we want to substitute only characters
that are not alphanumeric. We can create this opposite (or complement) func-
tion to  alphanumericp by passing it to a higher-order function named  complement .
By passing this function into  substitute-if , we get the behavior we want,
without needing to use  defun to pollute the top level with a new function just
to feed to  substitute-if

*However, Lisp functions that end in  not are better avoided. They may*
*be removed from future versions in the ANSI Common Lisp standard, which means*
*they are considered deprecated.*



##### Converting Edges into DOT Format

```lisp
(defparameter *wizard-edges* '((living-room (garden west door)
                              				(attic upstairs ladder))
                              (garden (living-room east door))
                              (attic (living-room downstairs ladder))))
(defun edges->dot (edges)
  (mapc (lambda (node)
          (mapc (lambda (edge)
                  (fresh-line)
                  (princ (dot-name (car node)))
                  (princ "->")
                  (princ (dot-name (car edge)))
                  (princ "[label=\"")
                  (princ (dot-label (cdr edge)))
                  (princ "\"];"))
                (cdr node)))
  		edges))
```

```lisp
> (edges->dot *wizard-edges*)
LIVING_ROOM->GARDEN[label="(WEST DOOR)"];
LIVING_ROOM->ATTIC[label="(UPSTAIRS LADDER)"];
GARDEN->LIVING_ROOM[label="(EAST DOOR)"];
ATTIC->LIVING_ROOM[label="(DOWNSTAIRS LADDER)"];
```

##### Turning the DOT File into a Picture

```lisp
(defun dot->png (fname thunk)
  (with-open-file (*standard-output*
                    fname
                    :direction :output
                    :if-exists :supersede)
  	(funcall thunk))
  (ext:shell (concatenate 'string "dot -Tpng -O " fname)))
```



##### Writing to a File

```lisp
(with-open-file (my-stream
                "testfile.txt"
                :direction :output
                :if-exists :supersede)
	(princ "Hello File!" my-stream))
```



##### Creating a Stream

```lisp
(with-open-file (my-stream ...)
	...body has my-stream defined...)
(let ((my-variable ...))
	...body has my-variable defined...)
```



##### Understanding Keyword Parameters

As you’ve probably noticed, symbols in Common Lisp sometimes begin
with a colon. This includes keyword parameters, which always start with a
colon. This is because a regular symbol in Lisp can refer to something else.
For instance, we could set a variable  cigar equal to  5 and then return it:

```lisp
> (let ((cigar 5))
	cigar)
5
```



##### Capturing the Console Output

Our  dot->png sends our data to the file in a slightly different way than is shown
in this example: by declaring the name of the stream to be  \*standard-output\*
(a special global variable in Common Lisp that controls the default location
to which printing functions send their output). As a result, any printing done
inside the thunk will be redirected to our DOT file.

\*standard-output\*s是一个全局变量，它控制着print的输出方向。我们可以局部覆盖\*standard-output\*，以重定向print的输出方向，比如使其输出内容到文件。

（cl中的动态变量的概念）

```lisp
(defun dot->png (fname thunk)
  (with-open-file (*standard-output*
                    fname
                    :direction :output
                    :if-exists :supersede)
  	(funcall thunk))
  (ext:shell (concatenate 'string "dot -Tpng -O " fname)))
```

So how exactly does the  dot->png function cause our DOT data to get saved
to a file instead of just going to the console? To answer this, you’ll need to
exercise your brain a bit. Also, you’ll need to recall our discussion of local
and dynamic variables in Chapter 2.
Remember that the  let command usually creates a lexical, or local, variable.
As we’ve discussed, the stream variable created by  with-open-file is analogous
to using  let to create a variable. Hence, it usually leads to the creation of a
lexical stream variable for us.
However, if a dynamic variable already exists with the same name,  let will
instead, temporarily, override the value of the dynamic variable to the new
value.  *standard-output* is such a dynamic variable. This means that we can
temporarily override the value of  *standard-output* to a new value by passing it
into our  with-open-file command.



```lisp
> (mapcar #'print '(a b c))
A
B
C
...
> (maplist #'print '(a b c))
(A B C)
(B C)
(C)
...
```



# chap8

## Defining the Edges of Congestion City

```lisp
(load "graph-util")
(defparameter *congestion-city-nodes* nil)
(defparameter *congestion-city-edges* nil)
(defparameter *visited-nodes* nil)
(defparameter *node-num* 30)
(defparameter *edge-num* 45)
(defparameter *worm-num* 3)
(defparameter *cop-odds* 15)
```

## Generating Random Edges

```lisp
(defun random-node ()
	(1+ (random *node-num*)))
(defun edge-pair (a b)
	(unless (eql a b)
		(list (cons a b) (cons b a))))
(defun make-edge-list ()
	(apply #'append (loop repeat *edge-num*
						collect (edge-pair (random-node) (random-node)))))
```

```lisp
> (make-edge-list)
((16 . 20) (20 . 16) (9 . 3) (3 . 9) (25 . 18) (18 . 25) (30 . 29) (29 . 30)
(26 . 13) (13 . 26) (12 . 25) (25 . 12) (26 . 22) (22 . 26) (30 . 29) (29 .
30) (3 . 14) (14 . 3) (28 . 6) (6 . 28) (4 . 8) (8 . 4) (27 . 8) (8 . 27) (3 .
30) (30 . 3) (25 . 16) (16 . 25) (5 . 21) (21 . 5) (11 . 24) (24 . 11) (14 .
1) (1 . 14) (25 . 11) (11 . 25) (21 . 9) (9 . 21) (12 . 22) (22 . 12) (21 .
11) (11 . 21) (11 . 17) (17 . 11) (30 . 21) (21 . 30) (3 . 11) (11 . 3) (24 .
23) (23 . 24) (1 . 24) (24 . 1) (21 . 19) (19 . 21) (25 . 29) (29 . 25) (1 .
26) (26 . 1) (28 . 24) (24 . 28) (20 . 15) (15 . 20) (28 . 25) (25 . 28) (2 .
11) (11 . 2) (11 . 24) (24 . 11) (29 . 24) (24 . 29) (18 . 28) (28 . 18) (14 .
15) (15 . 14) (16 . 10) (10 . 16) (3 . 26) (26 . 3) (18 . 9) (9 . 18) (5 . 12)
(12 . 5) (11 . 18) (18 . 11) (20 . 17) (17 . 20) (25 . 3) (3 . 25))
```

## Looping with the loop Command

```lisp
> (loop repeat 10
	collect 1)
(1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1)
```

```lisp
> (loop for n from 1 to 10
	collect n)
(1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10)

> (loop for n from 1 to 10
	collect (+ 100 n))
(101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110)
```

## Preventing Islands

We now can generate random edges. Of course, if we just connect random nodes with random edges, there’s no guarantee that all of Congestion City will be connected because of all that randomness. For example, some parts of the city might form an island, with no connections to the main road system.

To prevent this, we’ll take our list of edges, find unconnected nodes, and connect these islands to the rest of the city network using this code:

```lisp
(defun direct-edges (node edge-list)
	(remove-if-not (lambda (x)
		(eql (car x) node))
			edge-list))
```























































In contrast, Lisp languages make it extremely easy for an experienced 

Lisper to alter the compiler/interpreter that runs a program, while still

supporting rich language features with extensive libraries. In fact, messing

around with the language within Lisp is easier than in any other language

ever created!

For example, writing a function in Lisp to calculate the distance between

two points would be simple, as in most other languages. But an experienced

Lisper would find it equally easy to invent a new way to nest function definitions

or devise a funky if-then command. Even writing your own object-oriented

programming support inside Lisp is not complicated (and most Lispers have

probably done so at some point). 

