## 程序设计的五个阶段

On one level, this chapter is about  GPS . But on another level, it is about the process of developing an A1 computer program. We distinguish five stages in the development of a program. 

First is the problem description, which is a rough idea - usually written in English prose - of what we want to do. 

Second is the program specification, where we redescribe the problem in terms that are closer to a computable procedure.

The third stage is the implementation of the program in a programming language such as Common Lisp, 

the fourth is testing, 

and the fifth is debugging and analysis.

The boundaries between these stages are fluid, and the stages need not be completed in the order stated. Problems at any stage can lead to a change in the previous stage, or even to complete redesign or abandonment of the project. A programmer may prefer to complete only a partial description or specification, proceed directly to implementation and testing, and then return to complete the specification based on a better understanding.

###  Summary

We follow all five stages in the development of our versions of  GPS , with the hope that the reader will understand  GPS  better and will also come to understand better how to write a program of his or her own. To summarize, the five stages of an AI programming project are:

1.  Describe  the problem in vague terms
2.  Specify  the problem in algorithmic terms
3.  Implement  the problem in a programming language
4.  Test  the program on representative examples（使用典型例子进行测试）
5.  Debug  and  analyze  the resulting program, and repeat the process

## 4.1 Stage  1:  Description

the problem is to get the kid to school, but in general we would like the program to be able to solve a broad class of problems. We can solve a problem if we can find some way to eliminate  " the difference between what I have and what
I  want. "

We should be aware that using means - ends analysis is a choice: it is also possible to start from the current situation and search forward to the goal, or to employ a mixture of different search strategies.

Some actions require the solving of  preconditions  as subproblems. Before we can drive the car, we need to solve the subproblem of getting the car in working condition. It may be that the car is already working, in which case we need do nothing to solve the subproblem. So a problem is solved either by taking appropriate action directly, or by first solving for the preconditions of an appropriate action and then taking the action. It is clear we will need some description of allowable actions, along with their preconditions and effects. We will also need to develop a definition of appropriateness. However, if we can define these notions better, it seems we won't need any new notions. Thus, we will arbitrarily decide that the problem description is complete, and move on to the problem specification.

## 4.2 Stage  2:  Specification











